doc/manual/source/parameters/particles.rst, before:

.. _particle_parameters:

Particle Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``ParticleBoundaryType`` (external)
    The boundary condition imposed on particles. At the moment, this
    parameter is largely ceremonial as there is only one type
    implemented: periodic, indicated by a 0 value. Default: 0
``ParticleCourantSafetyNumber`` (external)
    This somewhat strangely named parameter is the maximum fraction of
    a cell width that a particle is allowed to travel per timestep
    (i.e. it is a constant on the timestep somewhat along the lines of
    it's hydrodynamic brother). Default: 0.5
``NumberOfParticles`` (obsolete)
    Currently ignored by all initializers, except for TestGravity and
    TestGravitySphere where it is the number of test points. Default: 0
``NumberOfParticleAttributes`` (internal)
    It is set to 3 if either ``StarParticleCreation`` or
    ``StarParticleFeedback`` is set to 1 (TRUE). Default: 0
``ParallelParticleIO`` (external)
    Normally, for the mpi version, the particle data are read into the
    root processor and then distributed to separate processors.
    However, for very large number of particles, the root processor may
    not have enough memory. If this toggle switch is set on (i.e. to
    the value 1), then Ring i/o is turned on and each processor reads
    its own part of the particle data. More I/O is required, but it is
    more balanced in terms of memory. ``ParallelRootGridIO`` and
    ``ParallelParticleIO`` MUST be set for runs involving > 64 cpus!
    See also ``ParallelRootGridIO`` in :ref:`io_parameters`.
    Default: 0 (FALSE).
``ParticleSplitterIterations`` (external)
    Set to 1 to split particles into 13 particles (= 12 children+1
    parent, Kitsionas & Whitworth (2002)). This should be ideal for
    setting up an low-resolution initial condition for a relatively low
    computational cost, running it for a while, and then restarting it
    for an extremely high-resolution simulation in a focused region.
    Currently it implicitly assumes that only DM (type=1) and
    conventional star particles (type=2) inside the ``RefineRegion`` get
    split. Other particles, which usually become Star class objects,
    seem to have no reason to be split. Default: 0
``ParticleSplitterChildrenParticleSeparation`` (external)
    This is the spacing between the child particles placed on a
    hexagonal close-packed (HCP) array. In the unit of a cell size
    which the parent particle resides in. Default: 1.0

Commit message:

Added information to docs on new parameters available to the particle splitting framework

doc/manual/source/parameters/particles.rst, after:

.. _particle_parameters:

Particle Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``ParticleBoundaryType`` (external)
    The boundary condition imposed on particles. At the moment, this
    parameter is largely ceremonial as there is only one type
    implemented: periodic, indicated by a 0 value. Default: 0
``ParticleCourantSafetyNumber`` (external)
    This somewhat strangely named parameter is the maximum fraction of
    a cell width that a particle is allowed to travel per timestep
    (i.e. it is a constant on the timestep somewhat along the lines of
    it's hydrodynamic brother). Default: 0.5
``NumberOfParticles`` (obsolete)
    Currently ignored by all initializers, except for TestGravity and
    TestGravitySphere where it is the number of test points. Default: 0
``NumberOfParticleAttributes`` (internal)
    It is set to 3 if either ``StarParticleCreation`` or
    ``StarParticleFeedback`` is set to 1 (TRUE). Default: 0
``ParallelParticleIO`` (external)
    Normally, for the mpi version, the particle data are read into the
    root processor and then distributed to separate processors.
    However, for very large number of particles, the root processor may
    not have enough memory. If this toggle switch is set on (i.e. to
    the value 1), then Ring i/o is turned on and each processor reads
    its own part of the particle data. More I/O is required, but it is
    more balanced in terms of memory. ``ParallelRootGridIO`` and
    ``ParallelParticleIO`` MUST be set for runs involving > 64 cpus!
    See also ``ParallelRootGridIO`` in :ref:`io_parameters`.
    Default: 0 (FALSE).
``ParticleSplitterIterations`` (external)
    Set to 1 to split particles into 13 particles (= 12 children+1
    parent, Kitsionas & Whitworth (2002)). This should be ideal for
    setting up an low-resolution initial condition for a relatively low
    computational cost, running it for a while, and then restarting it
    for an extremely high-resolution simulation in a focused region.
    Currently it implicitly assumes that only DM (type=1) and
    conventional star particles (type=2) inside the ``RefineRegion`` get
    split. Other particles, which usually become Star class objects,
    seem to have no reason to be split. Currently a maximum of four 
    iterations are allowed. Default: 0
``ParticleSplitterChildrenParticleSeparation`` (external)
    This is the spacing between the child particles placed on a
    hexagonal close-packed (HCP) array. In the unit of a cell size
    which the parent particle resides in. Default: 1.0
``ParticleSplitterFraction`` (external)
    By default the particle splitting routine splits all particles 
    within the most refined grid. This may not always be suitable.
    This parameter (list of floats up to ParticleSplitterIterations) 
    controls the fraction of the volume within the most refined grid 
    that is split. So for example for a single splitting iteration 
    setting ParticleSplitterFraction = 0.5 means that half of the 
    volume is used for spliting resulting in aproximately half of the 
    particles within the most refined region being split. Defaults to 
    the entire region of the most refined grid.
    Default: 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 
``ParticleSplitterCenter`` (external)
    Set the center of the region around which particles are refined. 
    At most the region will extend to the edge of the most refined 
    region. Particularly useful when trying to focus the splitting 
    around a region of interest. Default: -1.0 -1.0 -1.0
``ParticleSplitterCenterRegion`` (external)
    Related and used only when the above parameter is set, this controls
    the length of the cube region that is split. For example if the 
    ParticleSplitterCenter is set to 0.5 0.5 0.5 and 
    ParticleSplitterCenterRegion is set to 0.5 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 then 
    a cube half the size of the refined region centred on 0.5, 0.5 
    0.5 will be used to split particles. Can be useful (necessary) 
    to limit the number of child particles created especially when 
    using multiple iterations. 
    Default: -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0
